<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Endnotes</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="backmatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section id="endnotes" epub:type="endnotes">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Endnotes</h2>
			<ol>
				<li id="note-1" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>I discovered eight varieties of antelope, with which I was previously totally unacquainted, and many new species of plants, for the most part of the bulbous tribe. <cite>—⁠<abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">A. Q.</abbr></cite> <a href="introduction.xhtml#noteref-1" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-2" epub:type="endnote">
					<p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Quatermain’s ideas about ancient Danes seem to be rather confused; we have always understood that they were dark-haired people. Probably he was thinking of Saxons. <cite>—⁠Editor</cite> <a href="chapter-1.xhtml#noteref-2" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-3" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Suliman is the Arabic form of Solomon. <cite>—⁠Editor</cite> <a href="chapter-2.xhtml#noteref-3" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-4" epub:type="endnote">
					<blockquote epub:type="z3998:diary-entry" xml:lang="pt">
						<p>Eu, José da Silvestra que estou morrendo de fome ná pequena cova onde não ha neve ao lado norte do bico mais ao sul das duas montanhas que chamei scio de Sheba; escrevo isto no anno 1590; escrevo isto com um pedaço d’ôsso n’ um farrapo de minha roupa e com sangue meu por tinta; se o meu escravo dêr com isto quando venha ao levar para Lourenzo Marquez, que o meu amigo (⁠⸻) leve a cousa ao conhecimento d’ El Rei, para que possa mandar um exercito que, se desfiler pelo deserto e pelas montonhas e mesmo sobrepujar os bravos Kukuanes e suas artes diabolicas, pelo que se deviam trazer muitos padres Far o Rei mais rico depois de Salomão. Com meus proprios olhos vé os di amantes sem conto guardados nas camaras do thesouro de Salomão a traz da morte branca, mas pela traição de Gagoal a feiticeira achadora, nada poderia levar, e apenas a minha vida. Quem vier siga o mappa e trepe pela neve de Sheba peito à esquerda até chegar ao bica, do lado norte do qual està a grande estrada do Solomão por elle feita, donde ha tres dias de jornada até ao Palacio do Rei. Mate Gagoal. Reze por minha alma. Adeos.</p>
						<footer epub:type="z3998:signature">
							<p>José da Silvestra.</p>
						</footer>
					</blockquote>
					<p>
						<a href="chapter-2.xhtml#noteref-4" epub:type="backlink">↩</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-5" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>For the history of Umslopogaasi and his Axe, the reader is referred to the books called <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Allan Quatermain</i> and <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Nada the Lily</i>. <cite>—⁠Editor</cite> <a href="chapter-3.xhtml#noteref-5" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-6" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Readers must beware of accepting <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Quatermain’s references as accurate, as, it has been found, some are prone to do. Although his reading evidently was limited, the impression produced by it upon his mind was mixed. Thus to him the <span epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Old Testament</span> and <span epub:type="se:name.person">Shakespeare</span> were interchangeable authorities. <cite>—⁠Editor</cite> <a href="chapter-5.xhtml#noteref-6" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-7" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>In the Sudan swords and coats of mail are still worn by Arabs, whose ancestors must have stripped them from the bodies of Crusaders. <cite>—⁠Editor</cite> <a href="chapter-10.xhtml#noteref-7" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-8" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>This cruel custom is not confined to the Kukuanas, but is by no means uncommon amongst African tribes on the occasion of the outbreak of war or any other important public event. <cite>—⁠<abbr epub:type="z3998:personal-name" class="eoc">A. Q.</abbr></cite> <a href="chapter-12.xhtml#noteref-8" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-9" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>It is a law amongst the Kukuanas that no man of the direct royal blood can be put to death, unless by his own consent, which is, however, never refused. He is allowed to choose a succession of antagonists, to be approved by the king, with whom he fights, till one of them kills him. <cite>—⁠<abbr epub:type="z3998:personal-name" class="eoc">A. Q.</abbr></cite> <a href="chapter-14.xhtml#noteref-9" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-10" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Compare Milton, <i epub:type="se:name.publication.poem">Paradise Lost</i>, Book <span epub:type="z3998:roman">I</span>:</p>
					<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>“With these in troop</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Came Ashtoreth, whom the Phoenicians called</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Astarté, Queen of Heaven, with crescent horns;</span>
							<br/>
							<span>To whose bright image nightly by the moon</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Sidonian virgins paid their vows and songs.”</span>
						</p>
					</blockquote>
					<p>
						<a href="chapter-16.xhtml#noteref-10" epub:type="backlink">↩</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-11" epub:type="endnote">
					<blockquote epub:type="z3998:poem">
						<p>
							<span>“Now haste ye, my handmaidens, haste and see</span>
							<br/>
							<span>How he sits there and glowers with his head on his knee.”</span>
						</p>
					</blockquote>
					<p>
						<a href="chapter-16.xhtml#noteref-11" epub:type="backlink">↩</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-12" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>This extraordinary and negative way of showing intense respect is by no means unknown among African people, and the result is that if, as is usual, the name in question has a significance, the meaning must be expressed by an idiom or other word. In this way a memory is preserved for generations, or until the new word utterly supplants the old. <a href="chapter-19.xhtml#noteref-12" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-13" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>It often puzzled all of us to understand how it was possible that Ignosi’s mother, bearing the child with her, should have survived the dangers of her journey across the mountains and the desert, dangers which so nearly proved fatal to ourselves. It has since occurred to me, and I give the idea to the reader for what it is worth, that she must have taken this second route, and wandered out like Hagar into the wilderness. If she did so, there is no longer anything inexplicable about the story, since, as Ignosi himself related, she may well have been picked up by some ostrich hunters before she or the child was exhausted, was led by them to the oasis, and thence by stages to the fertile country, and so on by slow degrees southwards to Zululand. <cite>—⁠<abbr epub:type="z3998:personal-name" class="eoc">A. Q.</abbr></cite> <a href="chapter-19.xhtml#noteref-13" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
